---
layout: post
title: "Bay Bee"
date: 2017-08-11 16:40:02 -600
categories: visits family videos vlogs tour the home beewee
---
My last post was a little delayed, so I feel like I'm getting behind on
publishing myself, but before I post any newer news, I must document my
birthday week at least a bit. A conspiracy happened.

Well, there I was, minding my own business on a Wednesday, making my
mother's famous Seafood Enchiladas for dinner because I had no job.
Derek had mentioned work might keep him out an extra hour or more, but
his frantic texts were dragging the extra time out farther and farther,
and I'd seen no humans other than the ones at Safeway all day (glowing
as I still was from yesterday's butterbeer fest), so I was getting
impatient.

Finally I heard a crunchy sound in the alley and a key jangle, and Derek
came in. I chased him around the corner from kitchen to living area to
bedroom, probably yelling something about cold enchiladas or my pain and
suffering - he is so patient - forgetting, all the while, that I never
heard a second key jangle....

Somewhere in the back of my consciousness came a pop and a creak, but
the brain is slow to accept those signs of a home invasion it perceives
at 5:30pm; it was not till I heard unmistakable footsteps in the kitchen
that I interrupted myself: "UM? DOOR?" Moving as I was in horrified
slow-mo, by the time I'd turned around that wicked elf was already
before me, all pink and freckly, asking me some smug question about
whether I had a bathroom so she could "take a pee." In all their
conniving, brilliant plans, I don't think she and Derek considered the
simple fact that they could have killed me. Have you punks ever heard of
cardiac arrest? *I could have died*.

Which brings me to the point where Elisabeth's documentation will be
more effective than mine. I could ramble about how sweet Derek was to
plan so far ahead to fly her out here, out of the goodness of his wise
introverted soul, and how much fun we had, and how many times she lost
her glasses in our tiny hut, but she's got a vlog of the whole visit.
Way more accessible. You can watch it right over
[thar](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fjmwbfXm0rk).

I realize anyone reading this blog is probably among the number that's
already seen her video, though. (She commands just a slightly larger
online audience than I do.) What you *haven't* seen is my own
walkthrough of The Home, which takes a less frenzied look at our setup
(in a two-months-late answer to Joe's demands for a house tour). It's
unlisted, because Elisabeth's Youtube channel is actually on my only
Google account, and I didn't think her viewers would appreciate it. This
means you'll only be able to find it with [yonder
link](https://www.youtube.com/edit?o=U&video_id=wZ7q5cZipG8). Someone
make sure Joe watches! By which I mean *make* him watch, because at this
point he'll probably be dramatic and say he doesn't care anymore. I
don't blame him.
