---
layout: post
title: "DRY MUSING"
date: 2017-06-14 20:40:02 -0600
categories: altitude baking travel books concerts bricks
---
Jake will never forgive me for complaining about how the altitude
affected the first batch of cookies I tried to bake here. This is
because I was operating without measuring spoons too, which I should
have mentioned earlier in the conversation. He may be a skeptic, but
where the baked goods are inconclusive, I myself know things are
different at a mile elevation because I get winded putting a fitted
sheet on a bed, my singing voice is still quivery and my hair looks like
a crepe. I am a litmus cupcake measured out in the precision of eternity
past, and I say the air pressure is too low and it's bone dry up here.

Well, I believe in the power of positive thinking (© Mom) and playing
head games with yourself. So before I moved, I tried to put eczema and
static electricity out of my mind and concentrate on actually looking
forward to the aridity, in the two crucial categories of Candy and
Books. 2443 must have been unusually damp (which wouldn't surprise me
given its surplus of nocturnal mouth-breathers), because I never noticed
another San Francisco house at that level of stickiness. Whenever I
tried to save candy in that house for more than two days, it would start
to slime. Elisabeth can bear witness to some of the half-decomposed
sticks of viscous gum I've put in my mouth. Lollipops would melt down
from the outside, just enough for a grainy exoskeleton of graying
squishiness. Peeps you tried to cure into a nice staleness took eons to
harden up. The only impervious candy was the venerable jawbreaker, which
is pretty horrible as candies go. It was a trial, and so was my regular
habit of deshelving all my books, fluffing them up, dusting them off,
and returning them to shelves I'd wiped down with vinegar water — my
best attempt at staving off Old Man Mold. Now I can rest easy with my
crackling hair and ashy shins, because I know my books and my
marshmallows will age naturally, turn brittle, and smell like vanilla
instead of death.

Poetically, I return to sea level this weekend, but it's East for me
once again. Derek and I are flying to North Carolina to visit Mr.
Butcher and see his beloved Muse perform in Charlotte (I'm just a
good-sport tagalong for that last part). We've planned to waste several
hours driving to the beach on Saturday so we can see the Atlantic (and
everyone there can see Derek and Mr. Butcher stand around uncomfortably
while I run into the water). I am no expert, but I'm suspicious that
North Carolina will be just a little more humid than here. I'll probably
have no time to see what happens to candy there, or bake anything, but I
do plan to look for architectural evidence that brick buildings can only
get that nice greenish patina at lower altitudes. It's always helpful to
compare places on the basis of their brickwork.

Related: Derek's pet peeve of the moment, besides Warriors basketball,
is this trend to refer to social functions and social media as "dry" —
"When your Insta is dry," etc. — so naturally I've been calling things
dry whenever possible, which is why This Post is Brought to You by
Anna's Pestering. I really hope it's an absolute sauna on our trip, so I
can call everything "wet" instead. Wow Derek, Butcher needs to tone down
that wet British humor and try for some *expression*. And so on.
