---
layout: post
title: "Doings"
date: 2017-07-07 20:40:02 -600
categories: travel concerts friends bricks
---
I GOT NO JOB. In the words of Buddy the Elf: THAT'S FUN TO SAY! Really,
I'm starting to think it's best that the job I want wouldn't start until
the fall anyway — I wondered what was wrong with me, since such a
stretch of quietude would usually make me antsy, until I realized I'm
pretty sure I am exhausted. Somewhere amongst my massive course load
last fall, the dreaded Winter Session, hot dog slinging, wedding stuff
and then moving, my brain achieved some beautiful zen that allows me to
happily reject job offers from Jimmy John's and the bagel place down the
street (ostensibly to spare my poor bloody hands) in favor of a calm
summer with perfect midweek ladies' luncheon availability. I'm like Lois
from *Malcolm in the Middle* crafting piggies out of milk cartons all
day, filling her mind and house with imaginary piggy world and ignoring
everyone because she had a nervous breakdown. I think Lois needed that
little quiet time. I have totally gone back to memorizing things as a
hobby. My to-do list for tonight includes "knit."

For all the riotous fun I've had, though, you could spin all this cozy
rehabilitation another way. In one sense, I almost feel like this is an
extended version of my typical mid-semester whirlwind visits. I am
having times. In places. To prove that to all the haters and also
because I have the time, I will list them for you now.

The Outings and Also the Innings
===

5/25/17. The aquarium downtown might have had tigers, and porcupines,
and even a group of elderly lady patrons in red hats and purple shirts
(the first I'd heard of a club called "The Red Hat Brigade"), but I'm
staying loyal to the Steinhart. I had a lot of fun with Oriana there,
but honestly, there was a section where they tried to spray me with
water, and there was a mermaid diving in one of the tanks. I am too cool
for that school of fishes. Props to whoever decided feeding live
crickets to spitting fish was a good guest activity, though.

5/27/17. Most of you know I love amusement parks. Great America is a
Rothenbuhler tradition, the Del Norte County Fair is a vacation
tradition, roller coasters are wonderful, I would kill for a Job's
Daughter's Doughboy right now, etc. Derek made sure I didn't know for
sure what Lakeside was until we got there — had he told me, I would
still not have been prepared. Picture a newly-abandoned theme park that
was never fancy in the first place and always had questionable food,
except it's not actually abandoned, except it probably should be. So
sweet. So cheap. Basically a sampling of everyone's favorite janky
carnival rides with retro signage and ancient vending machines, held
together with actual zip ties and squished between a lake and a freeway.
There were no lines for anything. Pretty sure if you stuck your arm out
riding the wooden coaster, you would actually chop it off. I ordered a
funnel cake and watched this blessed individual pour Krusteaz batter
into a fryer and then cloak the resulting corn blob in so much raspberry
and chocolate sauce I couldn't see it anymore. Lakeside could make
anyone a patriot.

6/7/17. It was an odd group that day. Billy B. was in town, so Oriana
arranged for me, Allison Fountain, and Sophie Ann (an approximately
nine-year-old neighbor) to visit the Cheyenne Mountain Zoo together. I
am no ginormous fan of zoos, but this one was the coolest I've ever
seen. It is in fact built into a little mountain, which you can climb
via gentle switchbacks or a gondola, and the views are crazy beautiful
from nearly everywhere (despite the fact that it was RAINING and I had
GLASSES ON). They have a sloth who hangs out loose in the monkey house,
and they seem to be able to keep elephants without killing them. SF Zoo
just went from lame to shame.

6/15-17/17. WOW! NOW I'VE BEEN TO SEVEN STATES INSTEAD OF FIVE! Thanks
to our great journey to the Carolinas. Muse was actually impressive,
albeit rather glam. (Missio and Thirty Seconds to Mars opened; besides
their utter suckage, the only thing worth noting about them is just how
diminutive and creepy Jared Leto presents in reality). Next day we got
the genuine Greenville, SC experience by way of Trader Joe's and Dave &
Buster's (that's sad). Worry not, we went out to eat also (CRAB
PO'BOY!). My theory about bricks looking better in humid climates held
up nicely, and I have photo evidence available upon request. My scalp
and eyeballs made a brutal discovery about how the back of a convertible
compares to the front while cruising down the highway. Of course, for me
the highlight of the trip was our visit to Myrtle Beach. (Mom, you told
me true! It was white! The whole beach was white. You expert, you.)

6/22/17. I need to take a moment to encourage all of you who like new
releases, friends, to never clap during a movie. Backstory: Oriana is
such a dear, she took me with her to an outdoor showing of *Rogue One*
at Red Rocks Amphitheater! The perfect setting for a galaxy far, far
away. We really did have fun. But we were able to have fun without
clapping in the middle of the film, and on that point I think we were
unique. Initiate soapbox. Hey, look, the opening frame! Clapping. Hey
look, it's Jimmy Smits as Bail Organa! Clapping. Hey, look, CGI Tarkin!
Sniggering, clapping. Wow, the Rebel Fleet has arrived to shoot stuff!
Clapping. Aw, it's our friends C-3PO and R2-D2! Clapping. Oh, so
inspiring, "Rebellions are built on hope." Clapping! Clapping! My heart
can't take that kind of stress. If you're seeing a movie for the first
time in theaters, I can't fault you for getting excited and applauding
when the end credits roll, but if you need to clap at all the fandom
checkpoints just to publicly indicate that you understand why a certain
moment is cool, you should wear gloves. Oriana agrees with me. I think.

6/26/17. Speaking of which, I found the nerd. Decided that to mark the
20th anniversary of the first *Harry Potter* publication, I'd have
Oriana over to test recipes and hopefully produce the perfect draught of
Butterbeer to go along with a movie. The day before, I happened to
casually ask Katie Becker if she liked *Harry Potter*. Oh, there it was.
She made the face. I had found a brother. So, after we put together our
inspired drinks, Oriana got to enjoy listening to the two of us dork out
loudly over the entire film (what was that you were saying about
occasional clapping, Anna?), or at least until Katie succumbed to the
paralyzing effects of all the sugar she'd snorted. (I don't succumb to
sugar.)

6/27/17. And now, the moment none of you have been waiting for!-- you've
probably heard about last week, which brought with it from California
some of the most marvelous doings yet. Derek and Elisabeth pulled the
upset of all upsets. A surprise birthday visit from the Bee! I'll talk
about that in an upcoming post, though. All the time in the world for
such things when you GOT NO JOB.
