---
layout: post
title: "von Beruf"
date: 2017-09-21 20:40:02 -0600
categories: job TPS mulling
---
I've laid off writing new posts over the last few weeks because it felt
like quite enough of my time was disappearing into my laptop. Guess who
found gainful employment? Like so many reluctant reader rabbits before
me, I have landed myself a job facilitated by the amazing World Wide
Web. I have a headset! I broke the streak I started in college of never
writing a spreadsheet! I have already worked from a hotel bathroom with
my murky cup of Keurig at 5:30am while Derek slept in the next room!

After a lot of talks over the summer with The Potter's School (an online
Christian school founded by homeschoolers in Virginia -- DING!), they
finally hired me at the end of August as an tutor of EFL (English as a
foreign language). I'm tutoring students in China and Vietnam through
their first non-EFL English classes (ages ten to fifteen, at fifth and
sixth grade levels). It's contract work, paid by the student, with
flexible hours I negotiated with families myself. Given the time
difference from here to China, and the eleven students I'm working with
only adding up to a few actual tutoring hours a week, my schedule turned
out to be interesting: early morning and early evening windows from
Tuesday to Thursday. I'm working solely at the start and end of Derek's
full-time workday. Wacky! But, although I'd like to have more students
to keep me busy (I probably will next year, because their China program
is new and growing fast), I was glad for any opportunity to start with
TPS. Working remotely has already proven so convenient -- I can do it
anywhere with wifi, in my jammies if I wish, with no need for a second
car.

All this is with my eventual goal of teaching in mind, but if it never
goes any further I will still love this job. Thinking back, way before
the "bachelor's degree" thing, I remember little scrawny Anna: rereading
the same books ninety times, correcting people with flinchingly sharp
enunciation in home videos, playing school with my friend Christina and
her private-school stock of *real* office supplies, writing hundreds of
lists and beginning tens of diaries that always ended up waterlogged in
the bottom of the black bin, working doggedly on submissions for the
*Neopian Times*. I can see me now, that factotum/factoter. Annoying. But
with all the options for study and career I could have gone ahead with,
the interests of bean-pole Anna seem like a strong indicator that I
won't easily tire of this work.

I enjoyed tutoring at City College, but TPS is already so much better --
mostly by way of the students. Standards seem high in the classes
overall, but this Chinese contingent is on another level of hardcore.
Teaching their kids English is not a light matter for these families,
and most are taking a risk just by enrolling. Every student so far has
been impressive in some way. They all seem so bright. Most told me that
reading was a favorite pastime, and one said her favorite book is *The
Secret Garden*. Like she was kin or something. English being at least
their second, sometimes their third language, there is something of a
Yoda element about the students: even when their verbs are in the wrong
places, I'm awed. Parsing through sentences with them and talking them
through their writing process is fun for me in its own right. Yes, I
admit that they probably wouldn't be quite as joyous about the subject
of their weekly thirty-minute tutoring sessions as I am.

Sometimes when I'm rambling, Jake likes to interrupt me with this
question (always a foregone answer): "Anna, are you thinking about words
again?" Always yes. Talking about, looking at, rearranging. With this
move I'm just beginning to make a lifelong hobby more productive.
Speaking of which, this job pays a lot more than Neopets did.
