---
layout: post
title: "The Krabby Patty Formula"
date: 2017-10-26 20:40:02 -0600
categories: dictatopical cooking
---
Mom and I, who communicate over Snapchat now, recently had a conversation about
all the signature baked goods in the family. She brought up her impressive
collection of "El Besto" cookie recipes, the way Elisabeth ascended from the
ranks of commoners to become King of Cake, and her opinion that I should add to
my arsenal of pies and complete the trifecta. The ambition of that woman. I
firmly believe there's a connection between pie and myself, but I only have
recipes for peach, cherry, apple, pumpkin and pecan. I've never even made the
pecan. These days I've pretty much stuck with peach, actually. Pie and I were on
hiatus until this discussion. Possibly we still are, but Mom's deadly earnest
was inspiring, and the more I think about it, the more I realize that if
signature foods are an art form, I should not deny Mom's commission.

Picture as I did the coolest ladies you know, the tough broads, the ones who
have measured out their lives with anything but coffee spoons. All of them
navigate life with style and aplomb, but try and think of a single one who
didn't also pour some style into a trademark dish. My theory is that all of them
one day set down some tasty morsel on a coffee table, and unknowingly joined the
elite.

(For statistical purposes I make no mention of men here, but nod to Ferrell
bread, Joe John pancakes, Grandpa's garlic bread, and the venerable World Famous
Cake.)

Mom, that lady with the cookie recipes? She thaws chicken on the counter and
doesn't even care. She will fill a tureen with the tastiest pumpkin curry soup
in history, and then try to hold it still on the floor of your car with her
feet, until disaster strikes. Mom is too busy to be alive, but she gets
everything done, and if she has a minute to spare, she'll show you the genius
glimmering from behind all the lines on her to-do list. I have my Grandma Sigi's
Apfelkuchen recipe, but I almost can't bear to try making it, because I'm sure
it won't have the exact flavor of my summer vacations at her house. Grandma Sigi
is the reason half of my breakfasts consist of a soft boiled egg and toast.
Auntie Annie moved her sweet potato skills to Texas this last week, and I'm
eternally sad about it. Aunt Joyce, raw vegan sadist, will never live down that
wonderful day she required young Joe to eat a celery stalk before she would give
him ice cream. I've known her to labor over a yellow cake that she couldn't
sample at any stage, the picture of serenity as everyone else raved over the
final product and took home the leftovers. Amy M. leaves bones in her soup, and
turns up to the party with a dessert that makes you question your own sweet
tooth for all its subtlety, balance and perfect texture. Liliana T. is a gift to
us from the land of Peru and although whatever she makes turns to gold, her flan
is otherworldly (and she knows it, and she knows the Rothenbuhlers know it, and
she gives us extra). Susan Ferrell's pot roast instructions are on the first
page in my recipe binder. I asked her for them over my second helping of dinner
at her house one day, as I discovered for the first time in my life that I do
not in fact hate pot roast. (I received both a recipe and several tips for
visiting the meat counter.) Vanessa has that Wabi-sabi in her blood - you know
what I'm talking about. Green bean casserole, Purple Russians, and stuffed
mushrooms come to mind, but it doesn't matter what or where she's making: tiny
hands do it best. Precision is an understatement, right down to the plating, and
usually sans recipe. Have you ever seen her salt and pepper something? It's
unbelievable.

Providence OPC rotates the coffee hour host family each week, and my appetite
has led me to a better understanding of the social fabric here than anything
else could. Within weeks I knew who the health nuts are, who is extra, and who's
too chill to be bothered. Mrs. Becker exemplifies church luncheon mastery: she
makes green chili by the vat and tells tales about the hours of overzealous pork
trimming involved (never an imperfect bite). Thinking of making frog eye salad
for coffee hour, Anna? You can't do that, it's a creamy citrus dessert. Mrs.
Becker owns that whole category by virtue of a single Cool Whip dish, and though
she'd never dream of taking offense, common decency forbids you. Furthermore,
her daughter Katie rules brownies, because she knows what's good and she makes
the boxed mix with butter instead of oil, half and half instead of water.
Meanwhile I, a coffee hour greenhorn, have already faltered in my second
production of Barbara Bars. Not enough jelly. I've tainted their reputation and
Barbara's by extension, I know it.

As for the rest of what I've been cooking, here's a summary: garlic. Derek loves
garlic with inordinate affection, which is why I've been mincing four cloves at
once for single batches of Lilly brand caesar dressing almost weekly since I got
here. (Karin's recipe. Another case of disliking something before trying
someone's better version. Subtract anchovy - add garlic - it will melt your face
off). We're eating a lot of garlic butter popcorn as well. I work scant hours
from home, and I have unencumbered kitchen access for the first time ever, so
I'm running lots of experiments. Some have failed (more often from anticipation
of altitude than from altitude, as we established), and you can only cook so
much for two, but I've found niches. Following some tip online about smashing
chicken breasts flat, I've produced a pretty sweet pan-blackened chicken
(Derek's true holy grail is chicken). Old favorites from Mom and Susan have been
tweaked until we both like them. I tried a recipe for chocolate banana bread
last week that could accomplish world peace with a few adjustments, and I've
also succeeded with sesame chicken and rainbow salad recipes from Budget Bytes
(plus Brussels sprouts, and one very cheeky artichoke). Tonight I'm taking a
crack at Mom's butternut squash soup. *If* I have signature dishes, they are:
for Derek, chicken; for Providence, under-filled Barbara bars; and for Mom,
mandatorily, pie.

Food's social importance is something you hear about all the time, but nothing
illustrates it better than the signature recipe; and it's a phenomenon I link to
pie already, because of my Great Grandma Margaret. I didn't know her long, and
she wasn't cooking when I did, but she was the *original* pie chef in the
family, a legend for good reason, and a member of that mysterious subset of
people who would rather die with their knowledge than give up a secret. One
recipe she gave my mom (read: her own granddaughter) was, intentionally, in
error, and it took years to get the correct correction out of her. Said
granddaughter was also literally blindfolded when brought to the secret Gurney
blackberry patch: no one living today knows the location. It's sad, baffling
maybe, but I admire that protectiveness over reputation. People still talk about
her food. She probably knew that a person is far more memorable after they feed
you. "By their fruits ye shall know them."

OTHER UPDATES: THE SKY IS CRACKING OPEN A COLD ONE, SO I'M PLANNING TO ORDER
WEDDING PHOTOS TOMORROW BECAUSE MY SCRAPBOOK IS MY WINTER PROJECT. I REPEAT:
IT'S COLD. I'M COLD. MY FEET ARE COLD. COME QUICKLY, SOUP.
