---
layout: post
title: "Scoopy"
date: 2018-04-17 20:40:02 -600
categories: mulling
---
If Anna Jean has one overarching, life-altering skill, it is
self-embusyment. I can busify any day until it's actually stressful,
with no impressive schedule to show for it. I like structure. I like
Little Projects. So recently, just know I've been keeping busy. But
mischief's a-brewing.

Mom and Micah and Brooke came to see me. We caught up in fine style,
ticked several foods and excursions off my list of family visit plans,
overwhelmed the locals, and had some violent encounters on the ski
slopes at Loveland. Miss u guys.

Oriana's wedding fast approaches, so at least I have my pretty dress
now. Standby on the earrings and the place I get my hair done. Also, my
shoes. And the venue for the bridal shower. Lo, even in the static lines
of text, observe Anna's eyelid twitching.

I tried a recipe for maple syrup pie, and I rather think I want to eat
it again before I'm dead, so I plan to retry. Also: learned to lattice
my cherry pie crusts, found and tweaked a good mango-avocado salsa
recipe, and branched out a little in my salad elements. Thought
question: would you like to spread extra deviled egg filling on toast
for your breakfast? These are the ways I avoid food waste.

Oh -- if you know, you know: I got some *bombshell* news recently. Rest
assured, I'm all over it like a little blacksmith with a hammer and a
hot poker.

For our first anniversary, Derek quietly planned a trip to Glenwood
Springs while I remained adorably oblivious. Adding hot springs swim to
end-of-year list. (Catch the rewritten lyrics: "They put some soupy
cheap sherbet in their dented '04 Camry / And drove it up to the Springs
to celebrate their anniversary...")

Let's see...what else am I up to? Tie dye! Marveling at the gorgeous
springtime developments on the trees and shrubs (so much so that I
caught the bug and planted my own seeds -- y'all, I think I may own
Swiss chard sprouts). I've been exercising pretty well, not that anyone
cares. We joined a rec center down the road because Derek was athirst
for basketball. Lydia and Timothy Baldridge finally managed to have a
group over for our first time playing Dungeons and Dragons, despite each
one of their ninety children having strep throat at all times (and I
hope this becomes routine, because as I suspected, D&D = *my kind of
game*).

We're going to *heck-freakin' diddly dang Hawaii* over Thanksgiving.
George's doing. Grapple as I might, I can't find the right word for my
excitement because adjectives are trite. (Just a little adjective irony
for you; humor!!) The only drawback is, now we have limited available
days to travel back to California and elsewhere this year...but Some Of
You could always come visit Colorado as well, and just in case you
didn't hear, I'm going to heckin' Hawaii with the heck heck.

*Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri* was so weird. If anyone's
seen it, please talk to me about it. I agree with Derek's assessment
that "it was definitely a bad movie with good parts," but it surprised
me several times, and I do love that in a movie. I may dare to name it
*refreshingly bad*.

My first school year as a career educator is down to three weeks. I
think I can make a go of it. In a couple of years I might be a 5th grade
teacher. Sniff.

Speaking of which: nobody panic, but I've been really hoping to find
menial work to busify my summer -- preferably involving little pay, less
thought and least sitting -- so I applied at a restaurant called Ramen
House, a snobby garden center, and Ben & Jerry's. For convenience and
range of hours, Ben & Jerry's would be perfect, but I'd almost given up
hope on them until the owner finally emailed me back this morning. I
want to keep Ramen House in my back pocket, but they are pretty
disorganized (jank), and they only seem to have two nights a week for me
to wait tables (nights I hang with Derek and that's final). If everyone
else disappoints me, I shall head for Einstein's Bagels. Readers, pray
for the right work -- your Hawaii souvenirs are on the line here.

That just about exhausts the scuttlebutt. I wanted to write a post
about, I don't know, not my everyday life, but I'm too busy right now,
cross stitching and fulfilling my daily quota of remedial German and
book chapters and stuff. Bis bald!


